this may be the most expensive keyboard
we've ever tested individually
addressable RGB keys no Cherry MX
switches with custom key caps no
Thunderbolt 3 pass-through with triple
OLED displays no it no it's got none of
those things
it's the completely wooden handcrafted
in Japan keyboard from Tekoa
priced at nearly 1400 US dollars but is
it at all worth it or does it get
chopped by this $40.00 Chinese keyboard
that we bought on Amazon speaking of
things that are worth it by the way
Tunnel Bear tunnel bear thinks the
Internet is better when everyone can
openly access the same content so try
total bear for free over at tunnel bear
comm /l TT
[Music]
available in either maple or walnut from
responsibly managed forests we're gonna
start with a look at the illustrious
Kokua keyboard key meaning both wood and
tree in Japanese see what they did there
simply put it's a work of art the 89
gently concave key caps are cut from a
single panel of wood with their relative
position preserved such that the natural
wood grain pattern is visible on the
finished board the keys contrast subtly
with the chassis which is one solid
piece even on the back where they cared
enough to carve a recessed bevel so that
the board is easy to pick up off the
desk turning now to the poop end of the
stick we've got the $40.00 cooler tron
other than the fact that this board is
indeed made of wood its appearance is
not that similar to the a koa key ok
hand-carved sustainable bamboo sure I
guess but there's no cohesive color
scheme and the keys chassis pieces and
the media keys have no consistency in
the direction of the wood grain then
making matters worse at the top of the
board the wood motif is disrupted by an
obnoxious cooler Tron sticker and a
nearly useless power indicator LED that
I would gladly trade in for caps and/or
num lock lights something her koa
managed to include and in a way that
actually enhances the look of the board
let's go back to the Hikawa and look a
little closer
the laser etched letters on the tree
board have amazingly sharp corners like
they're they're perfect to the eye the
tactile guides are both elegant and
functional and the key caps are aligned
in perfectly straight rows one of the
weakest points of the cheaper boards
looks on top of that poor key
stabilization makes the spacing between
letters uneven assaulting your eyes and
that impression has only made worse upon
closer inspection excusing even the
corrugated look of the bamboo wood grain
the keycaps legend is etched with a
degree of precision that I could
charitably described as serviceable
except for this Internet Explorer
looking key that won't
servicing me at all when it comes to
general build quality from a more
keyboard e standpoint honestly neither
of them is the best we've seen I mean
look at that
flex akoha though at least to their
credit all the key caps are aligned and
sit at the same height by comparison
check out cooler Tron's ragged afro and
low rider style question mark while
we're at it the edges are pretty rough
the f9 key is randomly darker and the
key guides subjectively mind you are a
little too subtle to be really useful
now some have complained that the legend
on this one can be difficult to see
particularly in the dark but cooler Tron
claims that the symbols become easier to
read after 2 weeks of use presumably
thanks to finger crud filling up the
grooves mmm yummy so for build quality
and style points I'm giving it to her
color it even feels and smells way more
woody than the cooler Tron which might
sound inconsequential but it's actually
kind of the whole point here boy alright
then what about the practical aspects of
this showdown the bamboo board believe
it or not is actually surprisingly
decent to type on since it's one of
those men Kanaka boards meaning that the
switches are membrane but a small lip on
the key cap gives the stroke a more
tactile feel it's not as loud as a set
of Cherry MX blues but it is louder than
your typical membrane board it's got a
bit of a weird layout since it's a full
104 keyboard with a numpad but then with
compact navigation keys but I might even
go as far as to say that I like typing
on it at least I would if it weren't for
that astonishingly heavy spacebar but
this stupid thing takes the force of
Thor's hammer to press down it's shorter
than normal and it's its left-of-center
leading some typists to accidentally hit
the Alt key instead alright then but
what about typing on a keyboard that is
35 times the price well to put it
plainly this membrane is mush city
people who aren't accustomed to
mechanical boards might not notice
but those who are and who might be
considering the Jaco Ikki are barking up
the wrong tree so to speak and this
one's got a weird layout too it's like
Japanese but with an English legend
which is great if you're Japanese and
you want to type in English but if
you're used to a North American keyboard
like I am you will be annoyed by the
shortened ENTER and backspace keys you
will have no use at all for the keys
that Japanese speakers use to switch
between their various alphabets and you
probably won't be a fan of the even
stumpy ur spacebar though it should be
noted that this one was actually easier
to use because at least it's centered so
which one's better well truthfully in
spite of the awful spacebar the bamboo
Letran is probably the better type er so
while you can get a real mechanical
keyboard at this price point
the novelty makes it may be a decent buy
especially since unlike the Jaco icky
it's wireless then again we couldn't
even slide the little door shut and
without it breaking as for the keyboard
I believe them when they say that each
individual unit is made by a Japanese
master craftsman in a labor-intensive
process at a rate of just one per day
unfortunately that craftsman didn't
spend any of that time on things that
keyboard enthusiasts actually care about
to be clear no one here hated it I'm
just a little disappointed that someone
could spend so much time making such a
beautiful object then charge a sizable
chunk of cash for it without even doing
the requisite market research to realize
that for 1386 dollars we expect a
braided cable so then which one would I
rather have in my home office honestly
neither of them they're both kind of
novelty items though at least one of
them is priced accordingly I can't
believe that we paid for this thing
I feel like a total SAP often but what's
not awful is ting the mobile carrier
that's focused on customer service and
customer satisfaction first when you
call ting you do not speak to a robot
you get put through directly to a person
and you don't have to pay extra for that
kind of service you pay only for the
airtime that you use with the average
ting bill only 23 bucks a month per
device and if you're stuck in a contract
and switch to ting they'll even cover
25% of your cancellation fee up to 75
bucks they've got new lower mobile data
rates data is now just $10 a gig beyond
the first gig and every single ting
customer will be able to reap the
benefits of this new change so head over
to Linus ENCOM and try out their savings
calculator it'll tell you how much
you'll save then sign up at our link to
get twenty-five bucks in service credit
or towards a new device we're gonna have
that linked below so thanks for watching
guys that this video sucked you know
what to do if it was awesome they'll get
subscribed hit that like button or check
out the link to where to buy the stuff
we featured in the video description
also linked in the description is our
merch store which has cool shirts like
this one our community forum which you
should totally join and if you're still
hanging around the video for this long
because you really think the HECO icky
is that amazing maybe we'll have an ebay
link below to cuz I gotta get rid of
this thing
$1,400 keyboard